okay so I know you guys did color a cell
when I wasn't around you had miss
Ferrari um but I do want you to have
access to this in case you need at home
cuz I know you don't all have sex books
um so over here you have the nucleus
over here the vacuole the mitochondria
the chloroplasts which are always bigger
than the mitochondria which you'll learn
about will have learned about because
you'll have done the plant cell lab and
you can see chloroplasts but you can't
see mitochondria on the little little
dots are the ribosomes um the smooth
endoplasmic reticulum and the rough
endoplasmic reticulum and miss Ferrari I
left me note these are always attached
to the nucleus the endoplasmic reticulum
is like right up on the nucleus the
Golgi apparatus I know it looks similar
especially when the picture gets smaller
it's not attached to the nucleus um and
then microtubules and the cell membrane
and the cell wall which are pretty
self-explanatory
um and in the cytoplasm which is like
the jello that holds everything together
um so just so you have the functions as
well the nucleus is the part of the cell
that controls growth and reproduction
it's like the brain of the cell all the
DNA is stored here the mitochondria are
the powerhouse of the cell so they
process food for energy okay so this is
where cellular respiration is going to
take place because this is like your
power plant if this was like a city and
you needed energy um vacuoles are
storage containers for plant cells
animal cells have them too they're just
smaller but they store water keep
unwanted substances out of the cell help
maintain p8 to remember is whether
something is an acid or a base you want
to have a pH of 7 nice and stable
chloroplasts perform photosynthesis for
plant cells you're not going to find
them in animal cells are used to
transport proteins throughout the cell
and also provide structure like a
highway system you can tell the
difference because the rough endoplasmic
reticulum has little ribosomes stuck all
over it um and this is where proteins
are made so where the genetic code from
the nucleus is translated into proteins
so synthesis meats like to make so
you're making proteins and then the
Golgi apparatus packages those proteins
up but also produces lysosomes um
microtubules again
and thick protein tubes that either help
move the sell or move chromosomes during
reproduction of the cell through either
mitosis or meiosis mitosis if you're
looking into this one of my cell wall
provides support and protection for the
cell again you're not going to find it
in an animal cell and then the cytoplasm
holds all the organelles of the cell
except the part one suite